GOOD EVENING EVERYONE AND
WELCOME TO THE OCTOBER 2ND
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE JOIN
US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
>> I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE
FLAG OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA AND TO THE REPUBLIC
FOR WHICH IT STANDS ONE NATION
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL BUT OUR PLEASE
CALL THE ROLE OF THE COUNCIL
HOUSE MEMBER DISH HERE FOR
HEROISM HERE MORE FOR YOUR
CUSTOMER HERE DENHA HERE
ELSEWHERE.
>> GOSIA HERE, MCKEYLA HERE
ELSEWHERE I'M HERE ELSEWHERE
HERE ELSEWHERE HERE ELSEWHERE
FAUNAL HERE WE HAVE A FORUM MAY
HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOVE BY COUNCILMAN
ASK MY COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA ALL
FAVOR POSED THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED.
WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
WE HAVE NO COMMUNICATIONS.
>> THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR
UNDERSTOOD DJAKARTA OH
EXCELLENT.
>> WELCOME.
WE HAVE THE PLEASURE OF HEARING
A COMMUNICATION FROM OUR CHAIR
OF THE INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY
POLICE OVERSIGHT COMMISSION.
>> CHAIR CARTER, WELCOME.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING, MAYOR.
COUNCIL MEMBERS, MADAM CLERK,
IT'S GOOD TO BE HERE.
I WANTED TO FIRST GIVE A REPORT
WE DID HAVE IT HAD OUR PUBLIC
FORUM LAST WEEK.
WE HAD YOU KNOW I THINK I SAID
LAST TIME I WAS HERE I DON'T
KNOW IF WE'D HAVE FIVE OR FIFTY
PEOPLE COME.
WE HAD ABOUT TWENTY FIVE SO I
WAS HAPPY WITH THAT.
WE HAD A MEMBER OF COUNCIL COME
IN ADDITION TO OUR NORMAL
REPRESENTATIVES.
WE HAD THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR
THAT POLICE CHIEF ALSO CAME.
SO IT WAS GOOD AND THERE WAS
THERE WERE GOOD QUESTIONS THAT
CAME OUT AND COMMENTS BACK TO
KARPIAK GAVE HIS REPORT HE HAD
A SLIDE PRESENTATION WITH
REGARD TO THE TRAFFIC STOP
REPORT AND AS I HAVE REPORTED
BEFORE, YOU'VE PROBABLY SEEN IF
YOU'VE SEEN A COPY OF THE
REPORT THE GREATEST DISPARITY
HAD TO DO WITH MALES OF COLOR
AND ALSO HAD TO DO WITH STOPS
FOR EQUIPMENT VIOLATION.
NOW WE ALSO HAD OUR ESTEEMED
COUNCILWOMAN HARRISON WHO SPOKE
ABOUT THE THE DRIVING DISPARITY
ORDINANCE AND IT'S GOING TO BE
INTERESTING.
I THINK WE'RE GOING TO KEEP
TRACK OF THE TRAFFIC STOPS.
THIS WASN'T A ONE TIME THING
WE'RE GOING TO HOPEFULLY ASK
DR. KARPIAK TO CONTINUE AS WE
GET THE REPORTS IN OF THE
TRAFFIC STOPS IN THE CITY AND I
THINK IT'LL BE REAL INTERESTING
TO SEE IF THE NEW ORDINANCE HAS
AN EFFECT ON THE DISCRIMINATION
THAT WE SAW WITH THE TRAFFIC
STOPS.
SO THAT'S THAT'S WHAT'S GOING
ON WITH THAT.
I DON'T KNOW EXACTLY HOW TO
BRING THIS UP BECAUSE MONEY IS
ALWAYS AN ISSUE.
>> BUT WE HAD A COMMENT THAT
CAME IN WEDNESDAY NIGHT THAT I
HEARD OVER AND OVER THE
COMMUNITIES WANT COMMUNITY
POLICING AND WHAT THAT SORT
OF MEANS IS THEY LIKE TO HAVE
POLICE OFFICERS THAT THEY KNOW
THAT THEY CAN TRUST THAT ARE IN
THEIR COMMUNITIES THAT KNOW THE
RESIDENTS.
>> THEY'RE IT'S MY
UNDERSTANDING THE LAST TIME
THAT WE HAD
THAT KIND
OF PROGRAM THERE WAS MONEY THEY
WERE FUNDING FROM SOMEPLACE
ELSE.
AND I HAD A COUPLE OF THE
ATTENDEES ON WEDNESDAY COME UP
AND GIVE SOME SUGGESTIONS AS TO
HOW WE MIGHT FUND THAT KIND
OF COMMUNITY POLICING.
I UNDERSTAND FROM COUNCIL
PERSON SONG THAT THERE MAY BE
SOME MONEY THAT THE STATE IS
LOOKING AT.
>> BUT JUST TO LET YOU KNOW
WE'RE LOOKING AT WAYS THAT
MAYBE WE CAN FUND COMMUNITY
POLICING AS WE HAVE HAD IN THE
PAST.
IT WAS INTERESTING OUR POLICE
CHIEF WAS ON HER INTERIM CHIEF
WHO IS WHO'S ON HER WAY TO
ANOTHER POSITION.
ONE OF THE COMMISSIONERS
INDICATED HE REMEMBERED WHEN
SHE FIRST STARTED SOME TWENTY
FIVE YEARS AGO AND SHE WAS IN
THAT NEIGHBORHOOD WALKING
AROUND AND SHE KNEW THE
RESIDENTS AND THE RESIDENTS
KNEW HER AND SO I DON'T KNOW
WHERE IT'S GOING TO COME FROM
BUT IT WOULD CERTAINLY BE NICE
FOR US TO COME UP WITH SOME
SOME MORE FUNDING AND AND NOT
FUNDING THAT'S LIMITED TO A FEW
YEARS BUT SOME ONGOING FUNDING
AND I THINK WE HAVE ONE
COMMISSIONER PROPOSED
COMMISSIONER IT'S COMING BEFORE
YOU FOR A VOTE THIS EVENING AND
WE CERTAINLY HOPE THAT THAT
WILL BE A GOOD ADDITION TO LAKE
PARK AND THEN WE WILL BASICALLY
HAVE A FULL COUNT.
WE'LL HAVE ALL TEN
COMMISSIONERS AND WE ARE
DIVIDED IN DIVIDING INTO OUR
COMMITTEES TO DO OUR WORK TO BE
REPORTING BACK.
SO WE STILL ARE IN NEED OF A
STUDENT FOR THAT ONE YEAR TERM.
IF ANYONE KNOWS SOMEONE WE'D
CERTAINLY LIKE TO FILL THAT
POSITION SO IF THERE ARE NO
QUESTIONS THANK YOU.
>> HAVE A GOOD EVENING.
THANK YOU.
WE NOW COME TO THE COMMON
RESERVE TIME PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL IN THE
COMMUNITY THAT MATTERS
MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
OF PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME
ONE NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES
WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
THE CLERK IN FRONT OF YOU WILL
NOTIFY YOU AND THIRTY SECONDS
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME IS
EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
>> OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
ADAMSVILLE METI.
HI MY NAME IS REDVALE METI.
I'M HERE TO SPEAK ON TWO ITEMS
ON THE CONSENT AGENDA A SEVEN
AND SEE FIFTEEN BOTH OF WHICH
WILL SERVE TO CLOSE SIDEBAR
GAPS IN THE CITY.
I'M VERY HAPPY TO SEE THESE ON
THE AGENDA.
THEY'VE BEEN A LONG TIME COMING
THE SIDEWALK ALONG S MAIN NEAR
PIONEER HIGH SCHOOL ADJACENT TO
ANN GOLF.
AN OUTING IS VERY LONG OVERDUE
.
THERE WAS A STRUGGLE TO GET THE
WALK ON THE OTHER SIDE OF AIGO
BUT THEY WERE EVENTUALLY HAPPY
TO DO THAT AND I HOPE THAT
THERE WON'T BE ANY PUSH BACK
FROM MEMBERS OF THAT CLUB
ANYTHING TO IMPROVE PEDESTRIAN
AND BICYCLE SAFETY NEAR THE
HIGH SCHOOL IS VERY WELCOMED.
MY SON COMMUTED TO HIGH SCHOOL
AND ON A BICYCLE AND THAT
CORNER HAS ALWAYS BEEN A
DIFFICULT CORNER.
IT'LL BE THERE'S ALREADY A GOAT
PATH ALONG THAT STRETCH EVEN
THOUGH IT'S REALLY A DIFFICULT
STRETCH.
THE SAME GOES FOR THE SIDEWALK
ON ST. SCHOOL BETWEEN PACARD
AND EISENHAUER AGAIN I'M
EXPECTING SOME PUSHBACK FROM
THE TOWNSHIP RESIDENTS THERE I
AM STILL SURPRISED THAT AFTER
ALL THESE YEARS THEY'RE ISLANDS
OF THE TOWNSHIP INSIDE CITY
LIMITS.
>> BUT I GUESS THAT'S ANOTHER
PROBLEM AND I WANT TO BRING UP
ANOTHER SIDEWALK ISSUE OF NOTE
THAT'S BEEN ON THE CITY'S RADAR
AT LEAST SINCE TWENTY FOURTEEN
SOMETIMES THESE THINGS TAKE A
LONG TIME.
THIS IS 3RD STREET ACROSS WHERE
THERE IS A SECTION OF CITY
SIDEWALK RIGHT NEAR DOWNTOWN
THAT HAS STAIRS ON IT AND
THERE'S A VERY HELPFUL SIGN
WITH A PICTURE OF WHEELCHAIR
FALLING DOWN THE STAIRS AND I
THINK THE CITY CAN DO BETTER.
THE PROBLEM WITH THIS ONE IS
THAT IT'S TOO BIG OF A PROJECT
TO HAPPEN WITHOUT A LINE ITEM
ON THE CITY CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT
PLAN AND TOO SMALL A PROJECT TO
HAVE HERE TO FOR WANTED A LINE
ITEM ON THE CITY CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENT PLAN AND THEREFORE
IN THE ABSENCE OF AGITATION
IT'S JUST NEVER GOING TO HAPPEN
BECAUSE IT'LL ALWAYS BE TOO
SMALL TO JUST DO IT AND NOT
FUNDED TO DO IT IF IT COST TOO
MUCH SEE CLICK FIX IT TO FIX IT
HAS AND HAS AN ISSUE FIRST
REPORTED IN TWENTY FOURTEEN AS
I SAID AND THE SUBJECT OF A
NEWSPAPER ARTICLE IN TWENTY
SEVENTEEN WHERE THE CITY
ACKNOWLEDGED THAT IT WAS A
PROBLEM BUT SAID IT WAS GOING
TO BE EXPENSIVE AND IN IN THE
TWENTY TWENTY YEARS I THINK WE
CAN DO BETTER THAN WHAT WE DID
IN THE TWENTY TEENS.
SO THANKS FOR YOUR TIME AND
GOOD LUCK FIXING THE SOAPBOX.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS SARAH
LAWRENCE.
HELLO I'M SARAH LAWRENCE.
AND I'M CHRIS LAWRENCE AND THIS
IS MY DAUGHTER.
I BROUGHT HER WITH ME TO SHOW
HER HOW ACCESSIBLE OUR CITY
COUNCIL IS AND HOPEFULLY YOU'LL
BE UP HERE ONE DAY MAYBE I WANT
TO THANK YOU FOR SERVING ON THE
CITY COUNCIL.
I KNOW THAT YOUR CONSTITUENTS
ARE A VERY OPINIONATED BUNCH SO
WE ARE HERE TO GIVE OUR OPINION
TODAY.
I'M A LONGTIME RESIDENT OF ANN
ARBOR AND I HAVE BEEN MULLING
OVER THE PROBLEMS OF HOUSING
ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY FOR
MORE THAN A DECADE.
HELPING WITH MY FAMILY'S SMALL
GENERAL CONTRACTING COMPANY
DREW ME INTO THE REALM
OF HOUSING WHERE I SAW SO MANY
OPPORTUNITIES AS WELL AS
CATASTROPHES, VICTIMS AND
BENEFICIARIES OF AN ARBORS
HOUSING MARKET BECAUSE OF THIS
IN TWO THOUSAND NINETEEN I
HELPED FOUND A NONPROFIT CALLED
THE EQUITABLE ANN ARBOR LAND
TRUST.
I WAS CONVINCED THAT NONPROFIT
ACTION WAS NEEDED OVER THE PAST
FOUR YEARS MY RESEARCH AND WORK
THE HOUSING MARKET HAVE LED ME
TO BELIEVE THAT ONE IMPORTANT
METHOD OF ADDRESSING OUR
HOUSING CRISIS IS THE
ESTABLISHMENT OF A COMMUNITY
LAND TRUST OVER THE LAST FIFTY
FOUR YEARS IN THE UNITED
STATES, SEVERAL HUNDRED
COUNTIES HAVE BEEN FORMED
THROUGH GROUND LEASES INDEED
RESTRICTIONS KELTIE CREATE AND
PROTECT HOUSING AFFORDABLE
RETAIL, NATURAL AREAS, FARMS
AND CIVIC SPACES.
>> MOST IMPORTANTLY, A COUNTY
CAN MAKE HOUSING PERMANENTLY
AFFORDABLE AND ATTAINABLE TO
MIDDLE AND LOWER INCOME WORKERS
PERMANENT AS IN FOREVER WHICH
IS WHAT I THINK WE NEED THIS
HOUSING CAN BE RENTED BUT ALSO
SOLD SO THAT WORKERS CRUCIAL TO
OUR CITY'S FUNCTIONING AND
CIVIC LIFE LIKE OUR POLICE
OFFICERS CAN PUT DOWN DEEP
ROOTS HERE WE ARE IN DANGER
OF TOTAL GENTRIFICATION IN THE
NEAR FUTURE BUT THERE ARE STILL
MANY, MANY OPPORTUNE CITIES TO
CHANGE THIS TRAJECTORY EVERY
MONTH I SEE AN OPPORTUNITY LOST
FOR NEW OR RESCUED HOUSING FOR
MIDDLE AND LOWER INCOME
RESIDENTS.
I'M INVITING EVERYONE ON CITY
COUNCIL AND THE ENTIRE
COMMUNITY AT LARGE TO MAKE A
BOLD PLAN FOR HOUSING FOR AN
ARBOR'S THIRD CENTURY FOR MY
KIDS, FOUR GRANDKIDS, FOUR
GREAT GRANDKIDS.
I'D LIKE TO THANK RYAN STANTON
FOR HIS ARTICLE LAST WEEK THAT
PROFILED OUR COMMUNITY LAND
TRUST PROPOSAL THAT COULD BE
PART OF THIS BOLD PLAN WE HAVE
JUST BEEN SETTING UP A NEW
COMMUNITY LAND TRUST WEBSITE
THAT I'M HOPING TO HAVE
LAUNCHED THIS WEEK.
IT'S VERY BASIC BUT WE WANT TO
HAVE A PLACE WHERE PEOPLE CAN
GET SOME INFORMATION AND GET ON
A LIST BECAUSE WE ARE HOPING TO
BUILD A LIST OF SUPPORTERS AS
WELL AS A WAITING LIST FOR
HOUSING THAT WE'RE HOPING TO BE
PRODUCING SOON WE'LL BE HAVING
TWO MEETINGS THE NEXT TWO
FRIDAYS AND OUR LIBRARY IF YOU
WOULD LIKE TO JOIN US.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS THOMAS
WEEDER.
WHEN I SPOKE TWO WEEKS AGO TO
OPPOSE THE PROPOSED STATUE
OF CALICOES GENCO, A SUBSEQUENT
SPEAKER ON ANOTHER TOPIC BEGAN
BY SAYING IN CLEAR REFERENCE TO
ME DON'T LISTEN TO OLD MAN.
THEY'RE MOSTLY RACIST AND
BACKWARD.
SHE WAS FOLLOWED BY HER
COMPANION WHO BEGAN HIS REMARKS
BY SAYING FIRST I WANT TO
ADDRESS MYSELF TO THE WHO IS
FIGHTING SO HARD TO STOP THE
STATUE OF CATHY GOES GENCO.
HE THEN TURNED AND FACED ME AND
SHOUTED, THESE TWO INDIVIDUALS
HAVE A LONG HISTORY
OF APPEARING BEFORE COUNCIL
SHOUTING EPITHETS SUCH AS
FASCIST, RACIST AND NAZI
COUNCIL RULE SEVEN SAYS THIS
ABOUT PUBLIC COMMENTARY
DISORDERLY CONDUCT AT MEETINGS
THE CHAIR THAT IS THE MAYOR MAY
CALL TO ORDER ANY ATTENDEES WHO
ENGAGES IN PERSONAL ATTACKS.
FAILURE TO COME TO ORDER MAY
RESULT IN THE MICROPHONE BEING
SHUT OFF THE FORFEITURE OF ANY
REMAINING SPEAKING TIME OR AT
THE REQUEST OF THE CHAIR
EXPULSION FROM THE MEETING.
MAYOR TAYLOR SAT THERE IN STONY
SILENCE AS A LAWYER, TIM TAYLOR
MUST KNOW THE LEGAL MAXIM THAT
SILENCE CONNOTES CONSENT.
I DON'T BELIEVE IT IS AN
APPROPRIATE USE
OF COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
TO ATTACK INDIVIDUALS WHO
ADDRESS IT.
INDIVIDUALS WHO HAVE NO
OPPORTUNITY TO RESPOND.
THREE COUNCIL MEMBERS ARGUED
THAT I'M INSENSITIVE OR HOSTILE
TO THE RIGHTS OF LGBT
INDIVIDUALS.
THIS IS BASED ON THE SLENDER
FACT THAT I DARED TO QUESTION
THE TOTALLY UNPRECEDENTED
ACTION OF THE CITY AND ERECTING
A STATUE TO IT OF AN
INDIVIDUAL.
IF A COUNCIL MEMBER IS ATTACKED
IN THIS WAY BY ANOTHER COUNCIL
MEMBER, THE ATTACK MEMBER CAN
ASSERT A RIGHT OF PERSONAL
PRIVILEGE AND RECEIVE TWO
MINUTES OF SPEAKING TIME TO
RESPOND.
PERHAPS PRIVATE INDIVIDUALS
SHOULD BE GIVEN THE SAME RIGHT
THE CITY INVITES PUBLIC INPUT
ON MANY TOPICS THEIR ONLINE
SURVEYS, EVERY SITE PLAN, EVERY
ZONING CHANGE IS SUBJECT TO ONE
OR MORE PUBLIC HEARINGS.
ABSOLUTELY NO PUBLIC INPUT WAS
SOUGHT ON THIS UNIQUE AND
POSSIBLY CONTROVERSIAL MATTER
ALTHOUGH THAT STILL COULD BE
DONE.
THERE IS NOT ONE SINGLE RIGHT
WAY TO SUPPORT LGBT
INDIVIDUALS.
I LITERALLY PUT MY MONEY WHERE
MY WORDS AND MY VALUES ARE.
I HAVE BEEN FORTUNATE ENOUGH TO
BE ABLE TO DONATE THOUSANDS
OF DOLLARS TO THE ACLU ONE
OF THE FOREMOST DEFENDERS
OF THE RIGHTS OF LGBT
INDIVIDUALS.
WHAT IS EACH OF YOU DONE AFTER
THE MEETING I SAW COUNCILMAN
COUNCILWOMAN IHR DOWNSTAIRS.
SHE INFORMED ME THAT THE ONLY
TIME THAT SHE'D AGREED WITH THE
TWO CITIZENS WHO ATTACKED ME
WAS QUOTE WHEN THEY CALLED YOU
AN.
I WAS ALSO APPROACHED BY A MAN
AND A WOMAN POSSIBLY IN THE
60S.
THEY SAID THAT THEY WANTED TO
APOLOGIZE FOR HOW I WAS
TREATED.
THEY ALSO SAID THAT THIS IS THE
FIRST COUNCIL MEETING THAT THEY
HAD EVER ATTENDED AND THAT IT
WOULD BE THE LAST IS SO
HORRIBLY SAD AND FRIGHTENING
THAT SOME OF THE GROUP THINK
THE INTOLERANCE OF OTHER VIEWS
AND THE INCIVILITY THAT AFFECT
OUR NATIONAL POLITICS HAS FOUND
A HOME IN ANN ARBOR.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KATHY
GRISWOLD.
>> GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR HAVING ME AGAIN.
I'M HERE TO TALK ABOUT THE
KING'S SCHOOL CROSSWALK NOW THE
KING'S SCHOOL CROSSWALK STILL
LOOKS THE SAME AND I'LL BE HERE
AGAIN NEXT TIME UNTIL IT IS
CHANGE AND IT SIMPLY COMES UP
TO OUR CROSSWALK DESIGN
STANDARDS, CROSSWALK DESIGN
GUIDELINES STANDARDS THOUSANDS
OF DOLLARS WERE SPENT ON THOSE
GUIDELINES BUT WE IGNORE THEM
NOW STAFF WAS GENEROUS ENOUGH
TO TALK TO ME AT THE GREEN FAIR
AND I APPRECIATED THAT.
BUT IT BECAME CLEAR THAT THEY
HAD INCOMPLETE AND INCORRECT
INFORMATION.
SO I GAVE SOME ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION BUT I THOUGHT WELL
LET ME JUST FOR YOU CAN SCROLL
CROSSWALK IN GRISWOLD SO THAT I
HAVE ALL THE FACTS AND THEN I
CAN APPROACH STAFF AGAIN.
WELL, I GOT MY FOUR YEAR
ESTIMATE BACK EIGHT HUNDRED AND
TWENTY FIVE DOLLARS.
HOW CAN WE BE TALKING ABOUT THE
KINGSCOTE CROSSWALK IN GRISWOLD
TO THE TUNE OF EIGHT HUNDRED
AND TWENTY FIVE DOLLARS?
JUST FIX THE CROSSWALK AND
BRING IT TO CURRENT STANDARDS.
I DON'T UNDERSTAND THIS AND
PEOPLE TELL ME CATHY YOU NEED
TO JUST BACK OFF BACK OFF.
THEY ARE JUST PLAYING POLITICAL
GAMES WITH YOU.
THEY THE MAYOR JUST IS NOT
GOING TO FIX THAT CROSSWALK
BECAUSE HE DOESN'T LIKE YOU AND
I RESPOND NO NOBODY WOULD PUT
THE SAFETY OF OUR STUDENTS AT
RISK SIMPLY BECAUSE THEY DON'T
LIKE ME.
A LOT OF PEOPLE DON'T LIKE ME
BUT THAT DOESN'T MEAN THAT YOU
DON'T BRING THE CROSSWALK UP TO
THE STANDARDS.
SO I'M JUST TOTALLY DUMBFOUNDED
WHY WE CAN SIMPLY IMPROVE THE
CROSSWALK AND IT LOOKS LIKE
STAFF DID PUT ONE SIGN UP A NON
CROSSWALK SIGN AT ONE OF THE
CROSSWALKS.
SO I DON'T KNOW WHAT THAT'S
ABOUT BUT THESE CROSSWALKS HAVE
EXISTED FOR 50 YEARS.
MY 40 YEAR OLD SON WENT TO
KINGS SCHOOL.
I AM INTIMATELY FAMILIAR WITH A
PUBLIC WALKWAYS.
I HAVE ONE RIGHT NEXT TO MY
PROPERTY SO I DON'T KNOW WHAT
THE PROBLEM IS BUT THERE IS A
SERIOUS PROBLEM IN THIS CITY
SEEMS TO BE BROKEN AND IT NEEDS
TO BE FIXED NOW FOR SOME GOOD
NEWS .
WE KNOW THAT WE CANNOT BUILD
MIDDLE INCOME HOUSING IN THIS
CITY FOR LESS THAN OR EQUAL TO
MARKET RATE.
SO WE NEED SOME HELP AND WE
SHOULDN'T BE USING TAX DOLLARS
SUCH AS THE MILLAGE.
BUT WE DO HAVE THE COMMUNITY
LAND TRUST AND I APPLAUD SARAH
FOR TALKING ABOUT THAT.
I'M LISTED AS ONE OF THE
SUPPORTERS.
I WANT TO BE A FINANCIAL
SUPPORTER.
I TALKED TO MY TWO CHILDREN.
THEY THOUGHT IT WAS AN
EXCELLENT IDEA AND IT'S NOT A
DONATION.
THERE WILL BE A RETURN ON THE
INVESTMENT.
IT'S NOT SPECULATIVE.
IT'S STILL A SOUND RETURN.
>> SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KIRK
WESTFALL
.
GOOD EVENING COUNCIL.
I'M HERE TO ASK YOU AGAIN TO
PLEASE PUT A THREE MONTH MORTER
ON DEVELOPMENT PETITIONS IN THE
AREAS OF PLIMOTH AND WASHTENAW
THAT ARE SLATED FOR ONE ZONING
MORATORIA ARE COMMONLY ACCEPTED
AND LEGALLY DEFENSIBLE TOOLS
FOR MUNICIPALITIES THAT ARE
ACTIVELY REPLANNING SPECIFIC
AREAS WE ALL KNOWLEDGE THAT ONE
WAS A LONG TIME COMING AND NOW
THAT IT'S PART WE'VE DONE WITH
JUST TWO CORRIDORS TO GO, WE'RE
SEEING AN INCREASING STREAM
OF PROPOSALS COMING TO THESE
CORRIDORS UNDER THE WIRE.
MANY OF US THOUGHT THAT THE
TRAGIC ONE STORY CREDIT UNION
BANK PROPOSAL OR TWO WOULD BE
THE SIGNAL THAT COUNCIL NEEDED
TO STOP FURTHER DAMAGE.
BUT DESPITE THAT SPECIFIC
DIRECTION TO STAFF TO EXPEDITE
C ONE, WE ARE STILL MONTHS AWAY
FROM GETTING THESE REZONING IS
DONE NOW WE HAVE A SUBURBAN
HOTEL, A CHICK FIL A ON
WASHTENAW OR THREE AND PLAYING
COMMISSION IS VOTING ON A TACO
BELL PROPOSAL ON PLIMOTH
TOMORROW NIGHT WARD ONE.
WHY HAVEN'T YOU ACTED?
WE'RE NOT JUST LOSING HOUSING
OPPORTUNITIES ON THESE SITES
POTENTIALLY ALREADY IN THE
RANGE OF THOUSANDS OF BEDS BUT
THESE SUBURBAN DEVELOPMENTS
WILL PREVENT LAND ASSEMBLIES
THAT COULD HAVE LED TO
THOUSANDS MORE UNITS IF
DEVELOPED WITH ONE ZONING.
THESE PARCELS ARE NOW GOING TO
BE AUTO DOMINATED FOR THE REST
OF OUR LIVES.
ALLOWING DEFINITIVELY BAD
DEVELOPMENT TO HAPPEN ISN'T A
VICTIMLESS ACTION EVEN THOUGH
YOU LIKELY WON'T SEE PEOPLE
LINING UP HERE TO SPEAK WHO ARE
ACTIVELY BEING PRICED OUT
OF THE COMMUNITY AND OUT
OF OPPORTUNITY.
WE KNOW THAT IT'S HAPPENING.
SO I ASK THAT PLEASE BE BOLD
AND USE YOUR POWER TO STOP THIS
ABUSE OF OUR LAND OR LIVE IN A
LIMITED AMOUNT OF LAND ON
TRANSICOLD AND BRING A
MORATORIUM TO THE NEXT MEETING
THAT STOPS ALL THE PROJECTS
THAT HAVEN'T GOTTEN
CONSTRUCTION PERMITS YET.
THANK YOU.
>> ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS
FROM COUNCIL COUNSEL MUSONG
AVOCATIONS ARE OPEN ON GEOEYE
JEGA TUBORG THAT'S THE
GUARANTEED INCOME PROGRAM THAT
YOU ON POVERTY SOLUTION CENTER
IS HOSTING AND THEN BEEN
STREETING ADMINISTERING A
REMINDER THAT THE CALL TO
QUALIFY YOU HAVE TO LIVE IN ANN
ARBOR, HAVE AN INCOME AT OR
BELOW TWO HUNDRED TWENTY FIVE
PERCENT OF THE FEDERAL POVERTY
LINE.
SO IF YOU CURRENTLY RECEIVE OR
ARE ELIGIBLE FOR ANY PUBLIC
ASSISTANCE LIKE STEPANOV
SECTION EIGHT PELL GRANT YOU
QUALIFY IF YOU'RE AN
ENTREPRENEUR OR SO OWNER OF A
SMALL BUSINESS INFORMAL GIG
WORKER, INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR
YOU ALSO QUALIFY AGAIN THIS IS
REALLY MEANT TO HELP FOLKS
IMPACTED BY THE PANDEMIC
RECOVER BUT ALSO TRY TO SEE WE
CAN MEASURE OUT THE IMPACT ON
THESE SMALL MONTHLY GRANTS
OF FIVE HUNDRED TWENTY EIGHT
DOLLARS PER MONTH FOR TWO YEARS
FOR ONE HUNDRED INDIVIDUALS OR
FAMILIES ON AND MEASURE
ECONOMICS ABILITY AND HEALTH
OUTCOMES.
IT IS NOT A SMALL BUSINESS NO,
IT IS NOT MEANT TO SHORE UP
PROFITS.
IT'S NOT PROFIT DRIVEN.
IT'S NOT PROFIT FOCUSED.
SO I'M REALLY LOOKING FORWARD
TO THE RESULTS AND I HOPE WE
CAN ALL ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO
APPLY MEMBER DISH.
>> THANK YOU.
UM SO AS AS WE KNOW THE CITY IS
IS ENTERING ITS COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN PROCESS AND IF YOU ARE
INTERESTED IN SIGNING UP TO
RECEIVE INFORMATION ABOUT THAT
PROCESS OR IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
IN APPLYING TO BE ON THE
STEERING COMMITTEE YOU CAN TYPE
IN COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND ARBER
AND THEN CHOOSE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN FROM THE DROPDOWN ON THE
LEFT YOU CAN APPLY FOR THE
STEERING COMMITTEE UP TILL
OCTOBER 16TH.
WE JUST EXTENDED THAT DEADLINE.
I WANT TO THANK OUR STAFF FOR
THE VERY COMPREHENSIVE ANALYSIS
OF THE CITY'S RESPONSE TO OUR
THREE MAJOR STORM EVENTS IN
FEBRUARY, JUNE, JULY AND THIS
YEAR OF THIS YEAR THE TOTAL
PRICE TAG FOR THE RESPONSE AND
CLEANUP WILL YEAH PRETTY MUCH
THE TOTAL SPENT BY THE CITY WAS
CLOSE TO TWO MILLION DOLLARS
WHICH IS AMAZING AND I AM BOTH
GRATEFUL THAT WE HAVE THOSE
RESOURCES AND MARSHALED THEM
QUICKLY BUT I'M HOPING THAT
WE'LL BE ABLE TO FIND WAYS TO
GET THAT NUMBER DOWN A LITTLE
BIT.
UM, AND LOOKING FORWARD TO
HAVING DISCUSSIONS ABOUT
ACTIONS WE MIGHT TAKE TO
INCREASE OUR PREPAREDNESS.
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON AND I
HAD EXCELLENT TURNOUT AT OUR
LISTENING SESSION LAST MONDAY
AT THE DOWNTOWN LIBRARY IN THE
MULTIPURPOSE ROOM WE WILL HAVE
ANOTHER ON TUESDAY,
OCTOBER 24TH AND FROM SIX
THIRTY TO SEVEN THIRTY THAT
WILL ALSO BE IN THE DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY MULTIPURPOSE ROOM ALL
ARE WELCOME AND WE ALSO WELCOME
SUGGESTIONS AS TO WHERE ELSE WE
MIGHT MEET IN OUR WARD.
>> THANK YOU.
FURTHER COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL.
I'M SORRY MIREIA.
>> THANK YOU.
JUST VERY QUICKLY I HAVE I'M
GOING TO BE HOLDING A LISTENING
SESSION ON OCTOBER 8TH, FOUR
P.M. TO FIVE P.M. AT YORK FOOD
AND DRINK THAT'S AT NINETEEN
TWENTY EIGHT PACARD AND I
INVITE FOURTH WARD CONSTITUENTS
OR ANYONE ELSE WHO'S INTERESTED
IN TALKING ABOUT CITY ISSUES TO
COME OUT AND LET ME KNOW WHAT'S
ON YOUR MIND.
>> THANKS FOR THE COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL COUNTERPROGRAM.
THANKS.
I THINK THIS IS WHAT COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH WAS REFERRING TO
BUT I WANTED TO DRAW PEOPLE'S
ATTENTION TO THE RESPONSE TO
ANALYZE AND ARBOR'S EMERGENCY
RESPONSE DURING SEVERE WEATHER
EVENTS
RELATED WIDESPREAD POWER
OUTAGES WAS ATTACHED TO OUR
AGENDA THIS EVENING.
IT WAS JUST POSTED THIS
AFTERNOON SO I HAVEN'T HAD A
CHANCE TO REALLY TAKE A DEEP
RENOVA BUT I WANTED TO THANK
STAFF FOR THEIR WORK ON PULLING
THIS TOGETHER BECAUSE I THINK
IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT
INFORMATION FOR US TO HAVE IN
MAKING DECISIONS AND BUDGET
GOING FORWARD SO THAT WE CAN BE
READY AND RESPONSIVE.
>> THANK YOU, COUNCILOR
HARRISON JUST WANTED TO LET THE
COMMUNITY KNOW THAT
APPLICATIONS ARE OPEN FOR THE
RISING HOPE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
.
THIS IS A PROGRAM THAT ACTUALLY
FOR WASHTENAW OUR COUNTY
RESIDENTS WHO HAVE A HOUSING
CHOICE VOUCHER AND OR ARE
RECEIVING ONE SOON AND OUR
JUSTICE IMPACTED THE RISING
HOPE HOUSING PROGRAM IS A PILOT
PROGRAM AND IT WILL RUN THROUGH
THE END OF JUNE TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR BESIDES BEING A WASHTENAW
COUNTY RESIDENT AND ALREADY
HAVING A HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER
OR SOON TO RECEIVE ONE, YOU
MUST BE IMPACTED BY THE JUSTICE
SYSTEM AND SOME OF THE SERVICES
INCLUDE TRAUMA INFORMED CASE
MANAGEMENT, PEER SUPPORT,
MENTORSHIP MOVE IN ASSISTANCE,
SECURITY DEPOSIT RENT RENTAL
ARREARS AND UTILITY SHUTOFFS.
THE PROGRAM THE SERVICES ARE
PROVIDED BY A BROAD ARRAY
CATHOLIC SOCIAL SERVICES
OFFENDER SUCCESS SHELTER
ASSOCIATION, WASHTENAW COUNTY
AND S.O.S COMMUNITY SERVICES
FOR MORE INFORMATION PLEASE
CONTACT THE WASHTENAW HOUSING
ALLIANCE.
THANK YOU FOR THE COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL.
IF I UNDERSTAND CORRECTLY WE
HAVE A FORCED A RESOLUTION TO A
POINT JUST FRANCIS TO THE
INDEPENDENT POLICE SERVICE
COMMISSION MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER THAT OH SORRY I'M JUST
SO EXCITED ABOUT HAVING THAT
DONE.
I STEPPED IN IT IN ADVANCE SO
THAT'S GOING TO BE UP FOR A
VOTE AT OUR NEXT MEETING.
>> MY APOLOGIES ALL FOR MY PART
I'D LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE
FOLLOWING NOMINATION FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION CHIP SMITH
AND STEVE KAPLAN TO THE HOUSING
AND HUMAN SERVICES ADVISORY
BOARD FAITH RED WINE ALTENA TO
THE DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY ANGELA JACKSON TO THE
COUNCIL ON DISABILITY CHOOSE
ISSUES ALANAH CHAMBERS AND TO
THE COUNCIL ISSUES AND AIRPORT
AND AIRPORT ADVISORY COMMISSION
ROBERT PACKARD TO THE COUNCIL
ON DISABILITY ISSUES AND
ALEXANDER ALEXANDER ARTS TO THE
AIRPORT ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
>> FURTHER, I JUST WANT
MENTIONED VERY BRIEFLY FOLKS
I'M SURE OTHERS AT THE COUNCIL
TABLE AND I BELIEVE OTHERS AT
THE COUNCIL TABLE AND I HAVE
HEARD FROM A FAIR NUMBER
OF PRESIDENTS WITH RESPECT TO
AMDOCS PROPOSED FENCING ON ON
THE RAILROAD AND CLEARCUTTING.
>> NOT A SINGLE PERSON THAT
I'VE ENCOUNTERED IN THE IN THE
CITY HAS EXPRESSED ANYTHING
POSITIVE TO SAY ABOUT THAT AND
I SUSPECT THAT A RESOLUTION
WILL BE BROUGHT FORWARD FOR OUR
CONSIDERATION AT OUR NEXT
MEETING TO MORE FORMALIZE THAT
EXPRESSION, COMMUNICATE IT TO
OUR GOOD FRIENDS AT HEMPTON
FURTHER DISCUSSION OH RATHER NO
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
THAT'S JUST ME DISCUSSING.
I HAVE NO FURTHER DISCUSSION WE
HAVE BEFORE US A CONSENT
AGENDA.
I HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE CONSENT AGENDA MOVE
BY A COUNCIL MEMBER JUST THAT
SECOND BY COUNCILMAN GHAZI
EDWYN DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA
IN FAVOR POSED THE
CONSENT AGENDA IS APPROVED.
ELEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
ALL VOTED IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
THUS SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO SEE
A THREE SEEI FOUR A FOURTEEN
FIFTEEN AND A 17 AND A NINETEEN
.
THERE ARE NO PUBLIC HEARINGS
TODAY.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE REGULAR
SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF EIGHTEEN TWENTY TWENTY THREE
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF THE
MINUTES ON FABER POSED THEY ARE
APPROVED DC ONE RESOLUTION TO
ENCOURAGE DTG TO DEVELOP A
PROCESS OF BURRING POWER LINES,
INVESTING IN ENERGY
INFRASTRUCTURE AND IMPROVING
GRID RELIABILITY RESILIENCE
MOVE BY COUNT MEMBER DENHA
SECONDED BY COUNCILOR DISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE A DC ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR AND I WILL
FIRST APOLOGIZE TO MY
COLLEAGUES FOR ONCE AGAIN FOR
JOINING US TO DISCUSS TONIGHT.
BUT AT LAST WEEK'S WORK SESSION
WE HEARD JUST HOW IMPORTANT
ENERGY, RELIABILITY AND
RESILIENCE ARE TO OUR
CONSTITUENTS.
UNFORTUNATELY WE KNOW FROM FAR
TOO MANY RECENT EXPERIENCES
THAT THE CURRENT DTI OWNED
ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE IS
FALLING FAR SHORT OF DELIVERING
ON THOSE PRIORITIES FOR OUR
COMMUNITY.
THIS RESOLUTION IS FAIRLY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
AT A RECENT ENERGY COMMISSION
MEETING WE HEARD FROM A
REPRESENTATIVE WHO IN AN
APPARENT REVERSAL FROM PREVIOUS
CONVERSATIONS WE'VE HAD WITH
THEM SUGGESTED THAT SUDDENLY
INTERESTED IN BURYING
POWERLINES IN HIGH IMPACT AREAS
THROUGHOUT THE CITY,
PARTICULARLY WHEN THE CITY
ALREADY HAS PLANNED ROAD OR
PUBLIC SERVICE PROJECTS
HAPPENING IN THE AREA BY
COLLABORATING WITH THE CITY TO
DIG ONCE IF YOU WILL, WE COULD
MAKE IT EASIER AND MORE COST
EFFECTIVE TO UNDERGROUND OUR
ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE TO
IMPROVE BOTH THE RELIABILITY
AND RESILIENCE OF OUR LOCAL
ENERGY GRID PARTICULARLY DURING
SEVERE WEATHER EVENTS WHICH ARE
BECOMING MORE FREQUENT WITH
CLIMATE CHANGE PARTIALLY AS A
RESULT OF D OWN RELIANCE ON
COAL AND FOSSIL GAS.
I DO WANT TO BE CLEAR THAT WE
KNOW THAT UNDERGROUND
TRANSMISSION LINES IS NOT A
MAGIC SOLUTION TO ALL OF OUR
ENERGY CHALLENGES NOR WILL
LIKELY BE POSSIBLE TO BARRY
LINES IN EVERY SINGLE AREA THAT
WE HAVE OVERLAPPING CITY
PROJECTS.
HOWEVER, THIS IS ONE OF MANY
TACTICS THAT NEED TO BE FULLY
EXPLORED AND IMPLEMENTED
WHEREVER FEASIBLE TO STRENGTHEN
OUR ENTIRE REGIONAL ENERGY
GRID.
FINALLY, IT'S ABSOLUTELY TRUE
THAT UNDERGROUND ENERGY
INFRASTRUCTURE CAN BE COSTLY
BUT AFTER YEARS OF DEFERRING
MAINTENANCE AND UNDER INVESTING
IN THEIR INFRASTRUCTURE IT IS
LIKELY THAT EVERY SOLUTION TO
TO IMPROVE THIS IS GRID IS
GOING TO COST MORE THAN WAS
NECESSARY TO GET US CAUGHT UP.
ULTIMATELY THE DATA SEEM TO
SUGGEST THAT IN THE LONG TERM
UNDERGROUND ENERGY
INFRASTRUCTURE PAYS FOR ITSELF
AND CONSIDERABLY IMPROVES
OUTCOMES FOR CUSTOMERS.
AND EVEN IF WE ACCEPT AT THEIR
SUGGESTION THAT IT COULD COST
UP TO ONE MILLION DOLLARS PER
MILE TO UNDERGROUND
TRANSMISSION LINES WITH ONE
DOLLARS BILLION IN ANNUAL
CORPORATE PROFIT IT IS UP TO
THAT IS UP TO ONE THOUSAND
MILES OF MISSED OPPORTUNITY
EACH AND EVERY YEAR WHILE
PASSING THE COSTS ONTO OUR
CITIES, OUR RESIDENTS, THEIR
FAMILIES, SMALL BUSINESSES AND
NONPROFITS ALL WHO ARE
SHOULDERING THE BURDEN
OF DISEASE CONSISTENT GRID
FAILURES.
FOR ALL OF THOSE REASONS I AM
ENCOURAGING YOU TO SUPPORT THIS
RESOLUTION TONIGHT WHICH WOULD
DIRECT OUR ADMINISTRATOR TO
WORK WITH DTI TO DEVELOP A PLAN
TO IMPROVE GRID RELIABILITY AND
RESILIENCE.
THANK FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS.
THANK YOU AND I DON'T HAVE TOO
MUCH TO ADD EXCEPT FOR TO AGAIN
POINT READERS AND LISTENERS TO
THE REPORT THAT WE HAVE
ATTACHED TO OUR AGENDA TONIGHT
OUTLINING WHAT THE COST TO OUR
COMMUNITY HAS BEEN THIS YEAR
FROM FROM THESE POWER FAILURES
AND UNRELIABLE GRID THAT WE
HAVE.
>> WE CAN SEE THAT IT'S CLOSE
TO TWO MILLION DOLLARS THAT WE
FACE THIS YEAR AND BEYOND THAT
SORT OF ONGOING SORT OF APPEARS
TO BE SURPRISED THAT THERE
MIGHT BE EMERGENCIES THAT ARE
HAPPENING THROUGHOUT THE YEAR.
THE FACT THAT WE DON'T AS
OUTLINED IN THIS REPORT THAT
IT'S NOT CLEAR THAT THEY
ACTUALLY HAVE AN EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT PROCESS, THAT
THEY'RE NOT COMMUNICATING TO
THE CITY THAT WE CAN'T
COMMUNICATE WITH THEM, THAT OUR
FIRE DEPARTMENT CAN'T
COMMUNICATE WITH THEM.
THERE ARE REALLY TOO MANY
POINTS HERE BUT THEY SHOULD
DEFINITELY BE THE COMMUNITY
SHOULD SHOULD READ THROUGH THIS
AND UNDERSTAND HOW MUCH DTI IS
IS SHOULDERING AND DISPLACING
THE COST ON COMMUNITIES LIKE
OURS.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCILOR
CORNELL, I WILL BE PROBABLY
MORE BRIEF THAN MY COLLEAGUE.
>> THIS HAS BEEN AN ISSUE THAT
HAS AFFECTED IN MANY WAYS
OUTSIDE OF THE REPORT THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGGS
REFERENCED.
IT HAS BEEN A SIGNIFICANT
PROBLEM IN WARD FIVE WITH
RELIABILITY ISSUES WE'VE HEARD
A LOT FROM CONSTITUENTS WHO
WHILE I'VE SAT AT THIS TABLE
BEFORE AND TALKED ABOUT HOW TO
CONTACT THE MICHIGAN PUBLIC
SERVICES COMMISSION AND HOW TO
RESPOND TO THEIR SURVEYS AND TO
BE PART OF THEIR STEERING
COMMITTEE THAT THAT FEELS LIKE
A FURTHER UNDUE BURDEN ONTO
THEM.
SO I'M REALLY PLEASED TO SEE
THAT THIS BODY TAKE SOME ACTION
AROUND THOSE.
>> AND I THINK ONE POINT
OF CLARIFICATION AROUND THE
REPORT IS THAT THIS TWO MILLION
DOLLARS IS AROUND THREE EVENTS
THAT HAVE HAPPENED IN THE FIRST
HALF OF THIS YEAR THAT SHOULD
THAT IT WAS STUNNING TO ME AND
I THINK THAT RECOGNIZING THAT
IN THE FACT THAT AS WE SEE THE
EFFECTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE
ACCELERATE AROUND THE GLOBE AND
WE CAN'T TAKE FOR GRANTED THAT
THAT WON'T ALSO CONTINUE TO
ACCELERATE HERE IN OUR
COMMUNITY AND IF WE ONLY HAVE
SIX MONTHS OF DATA COSTING US
TWO MILLION DOLLARS, WHAT'S IT
GOING TO LOOK LIKE IN TWO
YEARS?
>> THANK YOU, COUNCILOR.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO BE ADDED TO
THIS RESOLUTION.
>> THANK YOU.
COUNCILOR HARRISON, I WOULD
ALSO LIKE TO BE ADDED TO THIS
RESOLUTION.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE
DISCUSSION, COUNCILOR WATSON.
I TOO WOULD LIKE I WOULD LIKE
TO BE ADDED AND I DO ALSO WANT
TO SAY, YOU KNOW, DTT EMAIL YOU
KNOW, I DID A QUICK SEARCH
OF THE EMAILS MENTIONING IN MY
INBOX AND IT'S TRULY
OVERFLOWING.
>> IT'S THE LARGEST THING THAT
I'VE BEEN CONTACTED ABOUT IN MY
TIME ON COUNCIL AND IT'S ALSO
THE ONE THING THAT I'VE A LOT
OF PHONE CALLS ABOUT.
SO I KNOW THAT PEOPLE ARE
FEELING I'VE HEARD SOME FRANKLY
HEARTRENDING STORIES ABOUT
PEOPLE TRYING TO SCRAMBLE TO
GET HOTEL ROOMS, YOU KNOW,
AFTER ESTIMATES PROVE FALSE AND
YOU KNOW, WHEN I'M ONE EMAIL
SERIOUSLY ENDED IT'S GETTING
COLD AND DARK BUT I'D LIKE TO
BE, YOU KNOW, ADDED AS A
CO-SPONSOR I CAN'T SAY IT
ENOUGH.
>> THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION.
>> WELL, THIS RESOLUTION
OBVIOUSLY
ADDRESSES A A POINT
OF PROFOUND AND PERVASIVE
CONCERN THROUGHOUT OUR
COMMUNITY.
THE UNRELIABILITY OF AN
INADEQUACY OF INFRASTRUCTURE
HAS BEEN A TOPIC AT THE TABLE
FOR SOME TIME NOW AND I SUSPECT
WILL CONTINUE TO BE I WOULD
LIKE TO SAY JUST SUPER BRIEFLY
THAT A LITTLE BIT LAST WEEK A
NUMBER OF REPRESENTATIVES FROM
THE MICHIGAN PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION DID COME TO THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR AND WHERE I MET
STAFF AND RESIDENTS AND
COMMUNITY MEMBERS ALL ALL
THROUGHOUT THE CITY AND WE WERE
ABLE TO VERY CLEARLY DESCRIBE
TO THEM SOME OF THE CHALLENGES
THAT WE FACE WITH RESPECT TO
THE INFRASTRUCTURE INADEQUACIES
OF THEIR SERVICE INTERRUPTIONS
,RESILIENCE AND RELIABILITY
CHALLENGES AND AND THE THE
INADEQUACY OF THEIR EMERGENCY
OPERATIONS AND THE EXTENT TO
WHICH IT INTEGRATES AND
COMMUNICATES WITH PEOPLE IN THE
CITY.
VANDERBURGH AND I HAVE EVERY
BELIEF ELSEWHERE AS WE WORK TO
OPERATE THROUGH ALL TOO
FREQUENT OUTAGES, FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON FAVORITE POSED IT
IS APPROVED TO HAVE A CLOSED
SESSION TODAY.
WE DO NOT THINK YOU MAY HAVE A
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
CLERK'S SUPPORT
OF COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS AND
REFERRALS MOVE BY COUNCIL MAJOR
CITY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION OF THE KIRKS REPORT
ON FAVOR POSED IT IS APPROVED
MASCORD DO WE HAVE ANY
COMMUNICATIONS IN OUR CITY
ATTORNEY SOMEDAY IN THE ABSENCE
OF PUBLIC COMMENT OVERFLOW WE
HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN PLEASE
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER SONGS
AND BODY COUNT NO DISH
DISCUSSION ON FABER POST.
>> WE'RE ADJOURNED